---
layout: post
title: "Jekyll"
category: code
---
I had a question and I posted it on [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45455825/md-file-looks-fine-on-github-repo-but-it-doesnt-look-as-good-on-github-pages?noredirect=1#comment77930562_45455825): when I commit the md file into the `_post` direcory on my github repository `yinkouya.github.io`, the **code block** looks fine with the gray background and nice highlighting, but when I open it on my **Github Pages**, the styling is gone. I don't understand why the difference. I'm guessing it has something to do with the way Jekyll parses md files. So I'm decided to refresh upon Jekyll.

### Jekyll
Jekyll is, at its core, a text transformation enine. Any file that contains a YAML front matter block will be processed by Jekyll as a special file.

### [Liquid](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/)
Liquid is an open-source template language created by Shopify and written in Ruby. Liquid code can be categorized into objects, tags, and filters.

#### Objects
Objects tell Liquid where to show content on a page. Objects and variable names are denoted by double curly braces: {{ and }}. For example: ` {{ page.title }}`

#### Tags
Tags create the logic and control flow for templates. They are denoted by curly braces and percent signs: {% and %}.
For example:
```
{% if user %}
  Hello {{ user.name }}!
{% endif %}
```

#### Filters
Filters change the output of a Liquid object. They are used within an output and are separated by a |. For example:
```
Input
{{ "/my/fancy/url" | append: ".html" }}

Output
/my/fancy/url.html
```

Jekyll uses the Liquid templating language to process templates. All of the standard Liquid tags and filters are supported. Jekyll even adds a few handy filters and tags of its own to make common tasks easier.

So far, no answer.
